= stead

Spreadsheets To Encoded Archival Description. Turns CSV files of container lists
into a stub EAD XML record.

== Story

Sometimes donors have spreadsheets which list the contents of their collections.
Rather than retype all of these into Archivists' Toolkit or an XML editor,
wouldn't it be nice to automatically generate a stub EAD XML document from the
spreadsheet?

With Stead you can. Just edit the headers (first row of the spreadsheet) to
conform to the Stead schema. This may involve splitting some columns to conform
to the schema, adding columns, and other editing.  All of this is likely easier,
faster and more accurate to do in a spreadsheet than trying to do it elsewhere
retyping the whole thing.

Once the spreadsheet is ready just save it as a CSV and use the commandline tool
csv2ead to output an EAD XML document. Import into Archivists' Toolkit.

== Requirements

Ruby

== Examples that follow the schema

Look in test/contianer_lists/ at the following good examples of the CSV schema:
mc00000_container_list.csv
mc00000_container_list_no_series.csv
The order of the columns does not matter, but the headings must be exactly the
same case and spaces as those found in these files.

== Instructions

Once you have your spreadsheet in the correct schema, do the following:
- Save the spreadsheet as a CSV file.
- csv2ead --help for current commandline options.

= Stead::Extra

From the commandline you can specify a Stead::Extra class which will be required.
This class must define a Stead::Extra.run method which accepts an ead and eadid,
creates a new Stead::Extra object and then does any further processing you'd
like. See examples/ncsu.rb.

== Support

Please let me know what else you need in such a tool and I'll try to work it in.

== Limitations

- Some of this is still be NCSU and Archivists' Toolkit specific.
- This tool has only been used a handful of times so far.
- Only works with this specific schema.
- Only known to work with series at the c01 level and files at the c02 level.
Other deeper levels of nesting will not currently work. ()May work with subseries.)
- Column values like series must be duplicated for each row.

== TODO

- More tests (though there are already lots of tests).
- Better documentation on the CSV file schema.
- Rdoc.
- Automate tests of csv2ead tool.
- Expand the schema to other parts of the EAD?

== Author

Jason Ronallo

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 North Carolina State University. See LICENSE for details.

